# Source https://www.edureka.co/blog/interview-questions/top-aws-architect-interview-questions-2016/

ec2-create-group CreateSecurityGroup -- Creates a new security group for use with your account.
1. Spot Instances - Amazon EC2 Spot instances allow you to bid on spare Amazon EC2 computing capacity. Since Spot instances are often 
available at a discount compared to On-Demand pricing, you can significantly reduce the cost of running your applications

2. Dedicated Instances are Amazon EC2 instances that run in a VPC on hardware that's dedicated to a single customer. Your Dedicated 
instances are physically isolated at the host hardware level from instances that belong to other AWS accounts

3. Reserved Instances provide you with a significant discount (up to 75%) compared to On-Demand instance.Reserved Instances 
can provide a capacity reservation
      - Standard Reserved Instances: are best suited for steady-state usage
      - Convertible Reserved Instances: It provides the capability to change the attributes of the Reserved Instance as long as the 
        exchange results in the creation of Reserved Instances of equal or greater value. Like Standard Reserved Instances, Convertible 
        Reserved Instances are best suited for steady-state usage.
      - Scheduled Reserved Instances:These are available to launch within the time windows you reserve

Expensive -- On-demand then reserved then spot instances.

---- Q - 
You have a video trans-coding application. The videos are processed according to a queue. If the processing of a video is interrupted in 
one instance, it is resumed in another instance. Currently there is a huge back-log of videos which needs to be processed, for this you 
need to add more instances, but you need these instances only until your backlog is reduced. Which of these would be an efficient way to 
do it?  - Use on-demand instance 

----Q - 
You have a distributed application that periodically processes large volumes of data across multiple Amazon EC2 Instances. The application
is designed to recover gracefully from Amazon EC2 instance failures. You are required to accomplish this task in the most cost effective 
way. ---Since the work we are addressing here is not continuous, a reserved instance shall be idle at times, same goes with On Demand 
instances. Also it does not make sense to launch an On Demand instance whenever work comes up, since it is expensive. Hence Spot Instances 
will be the right fit because of their low rates and no long term commitments.

----Q - Difference between Stopping and Terminating Instance means- 
Stopping and Starting an instance: When an instance is stopped, the instance performs a normal shutdown and then transitions to a stopped 
state. All of its Amazon EBS volumes remain attached, and you can start the instance again at a later time. You are not charged for 
additional instance hours while the instance is in a stopped state.

Terminating an instance: When an instance is terminated, the instance performs a normal shutdown, then the attached Amazon EBS volumes 
are deleted unless the volume’s deleteOnTermination attribute is set to false. The instance itself is also deleted, and you can’t 
start the instance again at a later time.

---- Q - 
If I want my instance to run on a single-tenant hardware, which value do I have to set the instance’s tenancy attribute to? - dedicated 

---- Q - 
When will you incur costs with an Elastic IP address (EIP)? --
            When you use more than one Elastic IPs with your instance.
            When your Elastic IP is attached to a stopped instance.
            When your Elastic IP is not attached to any instance.

---- Q - 
How is a Spot instance different from an On-Demand instance or Reserved Instance?
Spot Instance, On-Demand instance and Reserved Instances are all models for pricing. Moving along, spot instances provide the ability 
for customers to purchase compute capacity with no upfront commitment, at hourly rates usually lower than the On-Demand rate in each 
region. Spot instances are just like bidding, the bidding price is called Spot Price. The Spot Price fluctuates based on supply and 
demand for instances, but customers will never pay more than the maximum price they have specified. If the Spot Price moves higher 
than a customer’s maximum price, the customer’s EC2 instance will be shut down automatically. But the reverse is not true, if the Spot 
prices come down again, your EC2 instance will not be launched automatically, one has to do that manually.  In Spot and On demand 
instance, there is no commitment for the duration from the user side, however in reserved instances one has to stick to the time 
period that he has chosen.

---- Q - 
Are the Reserved Instances available for Multi-AZ Deployments? --Multi-AZ Available for all instance types

---- Q - 
How to use the CPU processor state control feature available on the  c4.8xlarge instance?
The processor state control consists of 2 states:C-states are idle states and P-states are operational states
-- The C state – Sleep state varying from c0 to c6. C6 being the deepest sleep state for a processor.With the exception of C0, 
      where the CPU is active and busy doing something, a C-state is an idle state. 
-- The P state – Performance state p0 being the highest and p15 being the lowest possible frequency.A P-state is an operational state, 
      meaning that the core / processor can be doing useful work in any P-state. 
---- Q - 
What kind of network performance parameters can you expect when you launch instances in cluster placement group?
The network performance depends on the instance type and network performance specification, if launched in a placement group you can 
expect up to
- 10 Gbps in a single-flow,
- 20 Gbps in multiflow i.e full duplex
- Network traffic outside the placement group will be limited to 5 Gbps(full duplex).









